We are live. What is up, Ivan Leo? Great
to see you, man.
>> It's great to see you, too, man. I think
really excited to be here today.
>> I'm so excited. I mean, we've been we've
worked together before and chatted on
um you've come and uh given a guest talk
at my course uh among other things and
we've met in person a couple of times in
Singapore and always had a great time
chatting. So to put together a workshop
on how to build your own agent in
particular uh starting off with the pi
agent and moving on to uh different
parts of o open core is so exciting. I
would love to welcome everyone who's
watching on YouTube. Uh we are we have
our Q&A on discord and that's so that we
can continue the conversation
afterwards. So I've put the link in the
description to discord. I'm also going
to put it in the chat. Uh, but put all
your comments and questions in Discord.
Um, and we'll we'll answer as many as we
can in real time and catch up after with
things that we don't get to. So, in the
workshops channel, that link should take
you to workshops uh immediately. But I'm
super excited to be here today with Ivan
Leo who just wrapped up all the
wonderful work you were doing at Manis.
Uh, has been working on KURA as well.
Worked at 567 with Jason Leu for for
some time. Um what's up Ivan?
>> Uh yeah I mean I'm just taking a break.
I think it's been really exciting diving
into things like uh high open call um
and just getting my head out after
having worked on product for so long. I
think the scene has just shifted so fast
and what was an agent just a year ago or
six months ago has just changed
tremendously. And so I think like
today's workshop was really such a great
way for me to be able to get back get my
hands sort of dirty again and really
understand like hey like what are some
of the new and great ideas that a lot of
these open source projects have been
working on. So yeah it's been really fun
honestly. [laughter]
>> Totally. So I just want to remind
everyone please do introduce yourself in
the chat in in Discord and we'll start
in a minute. I do want to say check out
our Luma calendar. If you like enjoy
these types of things, please do like
and subscribe and share with a friend is
the best way you can can support when we
um you know Ivan and I put put a lot of
time and work into this. Um in terms of
our Luma calendar, I'm sharing something
Ivan and I have been chatting about and
just announcing now. Um we'll be running
another workshop next month on build
your own deep research agent. Uh which
I'm pretty excited about. As are you
right Ivan?
Yeah, I think um a lot of times with all
these new agents and everything uh we
get a lot more opportunities to build
these like really cool applications and
so deep research is one of those things
that I think it just like is very useful
especially as agents can go like so much
further. So um really excited about
that. You guys should definitely tune
in. We're going to be building
everything from scratch as usual. A lot
of it is just going to be first
principles and stripping away the
framework so you can sort of understand
like what what is the core idea there
and um why do you want to even do deep
research? Questions like that. Yeah.
Totally. Um, and also a a bit of
shameless self-promotion on on the
channel. Um, I mentioned Ivan has has uh
came and given a guest talk at my course
before, but Stephan Krachic, who works
on agent infrastructure, a friend of
mine and I are teaching our final cohort
of building AI applications uh next
month starting in a couple of weeks. Um,
and we've got a lot of wonderful guest
guest speakers including Sebastian
Rajka, uh, John Barryman, Doug Turble,
Inis Montani from Spy, a lot of other
cool people. Do check it out if you're
interested. We've got over $1,000 in in
in uh credits from modal uh which we'll
be talking about today as well and
pantic logfire and all of these types of
things. I'll put that in the description
as well. So if you're into such things
uh check it out. But without further ado
I think we should kind of just jump into
it man. And I've actually prepared a few
slides. The reason I've done this um is
we've got a vast array of people of
different experience here. So some
people have built agents, other people
are just getting their their feet wet.
Others are interested and have used LM
but don't really know much about agentic
stuff. So um in order to make sure that
everyone gets something out of this,
we've just prepared a bit um you know of
uh kind of beginner material which if
you've done if you know a lot about this
type of stuff um just bear with us. I
mean we it'll move very quickly. So, let
me share my screen and ask you,
Ivan, can you see my screen?
>> Uh, yeah, works pretty well for me. I
can see it.
>> Okay, fantastic. So, to start off with,
we're just going to talk about building
agents, talk about two in particular,
which we'll be building around today, PI
and and Open Claw. Then we're going to
jump into uh I Ivan's code in layer the
land building the base agent giving it
hands where it's going to do stuff. Um
and it's actually something we'll talk a
lot about this more. Um it's going to be
extensible. So we don't always give it
all the tools, right? We enable it to
write its own tools based on what we're
what we're talking about. Um then in f
the fabulously named ET phone home
section we'll be connecting it to
telegram uh and then we'll be talking
through how to deploy it to modal in
order to have it uh sandboxed and
secure. So firstly I just wanted to
answer the question what is an agent and
there are many ways to think about this
but actually I did a podcast with Samuel
Culvin from paidantic recently um and I
like his joke. He uh said there are
three definitions. Uh our definition,
their LLM, AI person's definition is
it's an LLM calling tools in a loop.
Infrastructure person's definition, it's
a microser. The business person's
definition is something that can replace
a human and take their salary away. Uh
we'll be working with the first
definition today, which is an LLM
calling tools in a loop. And I just
wanted to give a couple of examples.
Right? So, you've got a user prompt,
send it to the LLM, and then you have it
call a tool, uh, and it will send the
response back to the LLM, and then the
LLM will quote unquote decide or reason
about, uh, whether it takes an action,
sends [clears throat] a prompt back to
the user, uh, sends a response back to
the user or calls another tool. And I
just want to give you two examples.
First is with a coding agent. And we'll
see this today. I will say to claude
code edit a particular file and it will
read that particular file. I joked to
Ivan yesterday. Well, it's not even a
joke that claude code may even just read
my entire codebase at that point and you
know lolly gag or bamboozle for you know
6 to 7 minutes but it won't edit it
immediately. It will read it. It will
return the results of that using that
read tool back to the LLM and then it
will begin to edit it right and it will
do some sort of loop here. Similarly, a
search agent. Uh, if I were to ask it,
is Ivan cooler than Hugo? Um, I mean,
the answer to that is is obvious. Ivan's
clearly cooler than than Hugo. But were
I to ask it that, perhaps it would
perform a search about Ivan, return the
result to the LLM, and then go, "Oh,
wait. I need to figure out how cool Hugo
is as well." And then it will search
Hugo and return that. Now, this is a a
silly example, right? But if it asks
what's better um what's a better API or
a better framework X or Y, it will do
some research for X and then do some
research uh for Y and then perform a
comparison.
So just to think about how to build
these things, I really want to break it
down because it is more straightforward
than than people think. Um you ping an
LLM, you add a tool, you build an
agentic loop, and we'll do all of this
today. And then you build a
conversational loop. So I can uh talk
with it [clears throat] time and time
again. Uh and perhaps you actually have
this conversational loop at the start
and doesn't really matter. But these are
the building blocks.
So what I just want to encourage
everyone to internalize is you can
actually build a general purpose agent
in 133 lines of Python code. And I wrote
a blog post on this that I'm going to
link to once I stop sharing my screen.
um with four tools read, write, edit,
bash. And the reason this is so
important and this will be a throughine
of what we talk about today
is and I actually think this is quite
profound if if you don't realize it and
even if you do that we should stop
referring to them as coding agents
because they really are computer use
agents that happen to be good at coding
or great at writing code uh when you
give them a bash tool. And I just want
to give a quick demo. It's demo time of
what what I really [clears throat] mean
by that. Okay, this is why things like
open claw and co-work and and such
things have really uh taken off. So, let
me just share my other screen.
Let me
just one second.
Okay.
So,
Ivan, can you see my terminal?
>> Uh, yeah, it works great for me. I can
see it.
>> Okay, great. Let's just have a look
what's in here. Bunch of files and I'll
share the code here um when I've I've
turned my screen off. But what I'm going
to do is I'm going to run um this agent.
py file. Okay. Now, this is the 130
lines of code that I mentioned earlier
or share the code. This is slightly
longer because I've made it a bit more
verbose so we can see the internals of
what's happening. Um, hey, what's up?
I'm just using super whisper to dictate
here.
Thinking. So, it told me it was
thinking. I mean, I'm telling it that's
that's in the prompt. Um, hey. Okay. So,
it's already told me it has reading,
writing, editing, and shell commands.
Okay. So, those are the four tools I
gave it. The four I just showed you.
Now, um what I want to show you is Can
you see my desktop, Ivan? Uh my file
system.
>> Uh yeah, it's a bit of a mess.
[laughter]
>> It's a huge mess. So, let's clear that
up. Um okay, so this is my desktop and I
actually want to get my agent to Hey,
there's a desktop folder. Could you just
organize it in some hierarchy set of
folders that make sense? Just clean it
up for me.
Okay, so here it is. Now it's making
some tool calls. It's clearly going a
loop thinking, let me try a different
approach.
It's looking in the directory.
Ah, it's trying to look at the actual
desktop, not the desktop folder. Okay.
Ah, now it's gone into this. And now we
can see it's it just totally cleaned
that desktop folder. Okay, so this is
the reason I wanted to demo that is
because this is a coding agent. Sure,
but what it really is, it's an agent
that can do anything that code can do
because it has bash. And that's why I
really want us all to start thinking of
these things as generalpurpose computer
use agents and and not just coding
agents. And the one of the reasons we
decided to um run this workshop is
they're easier to build than you than
you may think. Um so that that's really
all by way of uh motivation and
introduction. I do just want to uh share
slides again one more time and
say a few more things about
the types of systems um we're building.
So firstly I I want to tell you ah
probably need to can you see my pi slide
Ivan?
>> Uh yeah I can see the pi slide.
>> Okay great. So firstly I just want to
tell you about pi. Um and I'll I'll
share a link in discord but this is the
minimal agent within open core. Uh it
has four tools the four that I just
showed you. It has read writeed bash has
a lot of other affordances um including
context loading through agents md. It's
got a system prompt, has extensibility,
which we will be going deep into today.
But the real key, this is if you take
away nothing except this now. Um, it's
this is really the philosophy of how PI
works. The entire idea is that if you
want the agent to do something it
doesn't do yet, you don't necessarily,
you know, download an extension, give it
a skill, that type of stuff. can do that
but you ask the agent to extend itself
uh because it celebrates the idea of
code writing and and running code. So
that's really the the [clears throat]
philosophy which we'll see through
extensibility um and and through uh so
much of what Ivan Ivan has built. A few
words about open claw [clears throat] it
extends pi in a number of ways uh with a
gateway. So you have sessions channels
such as telegram cron jobs uh it has a
proactive loop which makes it well
proactive. Um, you've got heartbeats,
you've got chron jobs, they can check
your inbox, calendar alerts, reminders,
and message proactively. Uh, and it also
has uh a sub aent structure. Um, so you
got main agents and and sub aents that
do a lot of different things in order to
uh get results to you. It has a lot of
other things in it. As Brian Bishoff
might tell you, you know, sub agents are
really just tools anyway. Um, so he some
people would prefer to call them tools
and not necessarily uh sub aents. Um,
[clears throat] all that having been
said, just to remind you what we're
going to do now. That was the brief
overview. Ivan's going to build the base
agent, give it hands, uh, connect it to
Telegram, and then talk about, um,
deploying it to modal. And we'll be
going through the basic loop with
Gemini, tool calling, skills, MCPs,
hooks, extensions, memory, compaction,
daily files, all the things that are
wonderful in OpenCore. Then uh factory
patterns um for building tools and oh I
don't have this on the yeah I do hot
reloading. This is amazing using a
factory pattern to be able to uh create
a tool and have it not have to restart
the the session and be able to use it
immediately and then we'll connect to
telegram um using a fast API server and
then chat through deploying to modal.
Have I left anything
integral off there Ivan?
>> I think that's about it. I think we're I
think that's kind of everything that
we're going to be covering today. Um
really just a lot of the core principles
behind building great agents and yeah I
can take it away and that
>> amazing let's go man. Why don't you
share your screen and I'll share a few
more links on uh Discord and feel free
please ask any questions on Discord as
well everyone.
>> Uh let me just share my screen. One sec.
Entire screen uh should be this one I
believe.
Cool. Can you guys see my screen? Uh,
there should be
>> I can now. Yeah.
>> All right. Awesome. Yeah.
>> So, maybe you could zoom in just a bit.
>> All right. Yeah, no problem. So, on my
blog at ivalo.com, I've written a
series. Uh, it'll be updated after this
uh workshop with some of the stuff we've
covered. Um, so some of the additional
content etc. Um, but really I think
we're going to start with just talking a
lot about the high level conceptual
views and we'll walk through the actual
code. So I think it's important to think
about what makes an agent like really
effective. Um a lot of it comes down to
the fact that you have a good model
running. For example, if you were
running GPD 3.5 versus like Opus 46, the
Gemini 3.1 Pro series or even GPD 5.3
Codeex, the kind of things that you can
imagine
doing are like completely different,
right? And so you need a really decent
model, whatever works for your cost, all
latency requirements running in the
background. The second thing is that
ideally what you have over time if
you've used any sort of chat GBT or sort
of cloud application or even Gemini
recently is that as you use it more and
more it has a better sort of
understanding of who you are and you
notice it starts referencing things that
you talked about in the past mistakes
you guys made together things you worked
through and a lot of it comes down to
the fact that at the end of the day it's
just a bit of lesson where you just need
to give the model either access to the
data or just throw it entirely in the
model's context. itself. And so often
times you see for example OpenAI I think
um like with Chad GBT it almost feels
like I never see a retrieval tool but it
kind of knows and it feels like it's in
the context but with cloud sometimes if
you ask it certain questions about like
what you've been working on hey I've
been thinking about this you notice that
it starts calling like different tools
for retrieval but either way really
about it the real takeaway is just that
it should have more context on you as
you interact more and more with it and
in the case of open claw the way they do
is that they create memory files for
every day every time a compaction is
reached. So a compaction happens when
you know you have a certain amount of
messages and then you say okay it's too
much either it's too slow it's too
expensive or we're going to reach the
context limit of the model and then you
do a summarization step. um depending on
what you're using this compaction
pattern is very different but for open
claw what happens is that you actually
append it to a memory file and so what
the model sees is that you interact with
it throughout the day is that it has a
timestamp memory where let's say for
example now at 8:47 a.m. in Singapore
where I am you might see a simple
markdown file with 8:47 a.m. this is
what we did. This is what we discussed
with the user. We ran into these issues
and a lot of it comes to the fact that
if the model wants to figure out what we
talked about during the conversation, it
still has access to the raw database or
the raw traces in this case JSON files.
And the last thing I think that makes
like open cloud very good is just that
it can extend itself. And a lot of this
comes down to the pi coding agent. Uh
we'll walk through how this can be
implemented under the code with
something like a factory method like
what Hugo teased just now. But a lot of
it comes down to the fact that you want
to build software to build software. And
so being able to add whether it's
skills, whether it's modifying system
prompt, whether it's tools, MCPs, at the
end of the day, I think when you're
building an agent, what you're thinking
about is can I give the agent better
context, right? If you go back to
memories, a lot of it comes down to the
fact that, oh, now the model has access
to different bits of information that I
talked about in the past, right? Or even
better data sources like, oh, now it has
access to my calendar, right? and it can
tell me, oh, in the morning actually
maybe before maybe you shouldn't wake up
so early. Maybe you should sleep in a
bit because the last three days on your
calendar you've been having 1:00 a.m. US
calls, right? And so this idea of
context is really important because with
better context, better system prompt,
better prompts, better information, the
models can do more for you. With
capabilities, a lot of it is about
extending it and making it easy for the
model to either write its own tools or
be able to get the information it needs.
And so I think it's really important if
you don't take anything away from
today's talk that you kind of keep this
idea at the back of your head of like
context and capabilities. Um I got this
idea from Jason and it's really helped
me shape a lot of how I think about
building agents. Um a lot of times when
you work with a base model um some sort
of like agent um you want to see how
good the model is at its core then you
start thinking about whether extend in
terms of capabilities where extend in
terms of like context. Um and so full
disclosure for today's um workshop we're
not going to clone like open claw pixel
for pixel. I think like you know Pete
Steinberg did a great job with open claw
but what we want to do is we want to
break down the key principles that made
it good and so we'll be using the Gemini
model was in the series specifically
Gemini tree flash. Uh it's a really good
model and honestly I started using it
because it was pretty fast and good. Um,
and because initially when I was
building out a lot of the code for this
workshop, I was thinking of implementing
things like streaming, processing the
individual events, but Flash is fast
enough that it feels like it's almost
instant. And so for the use cases of
this, and it's also pretty cheap, so I
thought I would give it a try. So like
what Hugo said, it's not really hard to
build a fully functioning agent. um AMP
release a code a basically a walk
through in go and then I wrote an
article on how to do it in typescript
for this workshop we'll be running it in
pipe fundamentally a lot of it is just
running a language model in a loop with
enough of a token budget to spare right
if you spend enough tokens you let the
model run long enough either it goes
into a doom loop or it finds your answer
right and what makes this really useful
is this idea of like tool calling so you
might think what's so useful about a
model being able to output like JSON
text Okay. But if you look at any of the
systems that we built today, uh whether
it's the code editor you're writing in,
whether it's the Telegram messages
you're sending, or even like any sort of
website that you've used, a lot of times
you have multiple services working
together, whether it's the front end
website, the backend infrastructure, the
server, um your local sort of like CLIs
by having like type contracts of like,
hey, I can call these specific functions
and when I call this function, I will
send over like a JSON payload that looks
like this. But we kind of take our
models from just saying like oh these
are smart autocomplete machines to these
are now agents right which are able to
reason and work over very long and
autonomous sort of like work workflows
because they can call tools to get
information. They can call tools to edit
the state like what Hugo state reading
of Hugo said just now just reading a
file editing the file etc. And then they
can take that state and make better and
more informed decisions as you see later
on. Um, and so really I think this is
what flipped the switch for me when I
saw like um some of these models really
getting very good at like just calling
two calls being able to gather the
context they need themselves and the
fact that this could just happen out of
the box. U moving on a bit to like
skills and MCPs and I guess like hooks
and extensions. Um I think going back to
the idea of like context and
capabilities. Um, a lot of times I think
what you realize is that as you build
agents, you can't give it like a
gazillion tools, right? I think a year
ago entropic was like I think Claude is
good at like a hundred skills, 100 like
tools or so. But really at the end of
the day, think of it from your
perspective, right? You got to have a
bit of empathy for the model. Imagine if
someone gave you like 200 tools to
choose from every time you had to make a
decision. You wouldn't even be able to
finish reading all of the tools before
you asked to give a response, right? and
and at every single step of the way you
need to keep thinking okay do I choose
21 or 220 that becomes a very difficult
choice for you right and so thinking a
lot about like oh how can I preserve
that context for my model so it only
knows what it needs it can discover the
sort of skills capabilities um tools or
even like the variables the
configurations that it needs to get the
job done um using something called
progressive disclosure where the model
discovers it over time and that's the
idea of skills right And same thing with
MCPS like a lot of times when you think
about MCPS um they're really just
treated as other tools but because they
provide a type contract between what
your model is seeing in this case for
example you can think of it like the
notion F MTP right list all the pages do
a search you can actually hook it up to
a service that someone else has written
and this gives the model like greater
amount of capabilities right going back
to the idea of like context with the
capabilities um if what you care about
is the fact that your model has context
on your entire company's notion document
page
And that when you ask your questions
like hey what meetings do I have today?
If you ask it more questions like hey um
what are what is the status of the
discussion what are the outstanding
to-dos that we have in our specific uh
project at the moment having access to
MCPS having access the skills where you
can actually call these tools the model
can access this data sources and have
its context or capabilities augmented is
really useful in this case right. Um
going back to pi, I really like the idea
of pi. And so as a coding agent being
very minimal, I think there are two
things here, two ideas that I like a
lot. The first is the idea of hooks,
which we will implement ourself later.
Um a simplified version and extensions.
So hooks are the idea that if you build
any sort of model, let's say if you
build an agent and it goes slightly up
here. Every time you want to execute a
tool, um you need to define some sort of
handling for the tool or let's say you
want to print something out before you
receive a message. Um or you want to
maybe do some error logging or handling
for a specific tool, right? Um you end
up having to write a lot of bespoke code
that is difficult to remove. But with
the idea of tools or hooks in this case,
um really the core idea is that you know
um you're not wanting to print out the
model's response. What you want to do is
is sort of execute some logic at
different parts of the life cycle,
right? Going back to the idea of the
language model as loop, you give it some
input, it calls a tool, it executes a
tool, and then it gets a response,
right? These are all distinct portions
of the entire like model's loop calling
behavior. and hooks allow us to say that
okay maybe at this point I want to do
these three things at this specific
checkpoint I want to do these three
things and I think that's really sort of
useful abstraction to keep in your head
um extensions on the other hand are ways
that we can extend the pi agent and the
easiest way is really just um adding
extra tools right you can over here for
example register a tool that the model
can call to say
>> and maybe just zoom in a bit Ivan if you
if you don't mind to the code so
Yeah. Yeah. Thanks for that. That's
awesome. So,
>> yeah. Uh, sorry about that. Let me know
if there's anything else I can do to
help.
>> That's perfect.
>> So, yeah. So, I think um, for example,
if you look at extensions um,
pi.register tool, you can see that by
providing the model with the parameters
to call a description and a execute
function on pi, we're basically able to
add a new tool to the model. And in pi,
you can actually call /reload method
that allows you to reload all tools. And
so simple abstractions like this where
you very clean um sort of boundaries
between like model's life cycle how you
want to extend the functionality um
really I think are core about how to
think about agents
and so the last part is just like memory
I talked about it just now slightly but
um there are these two articles that I
liked a lot when I read it. one is like
entropic and open AI and so this guy
called Schllock Schllock Kumani I hope
I'm pronouncing it correctly um he
basically started breaking down a lot
about cla's memory system how does chat
GBD's memory work and I think they're
really interested in something like this
uh you should take a look at it because
I I haven't like really taken a very
close look at these two architectures so
I can't comment on like how accurate it
is but it is quite I guess consistent
with my experience whereby you you don't
really see like chb VT calling and
querying tools to get context to get
like sort of memory and then but
entropic seems to have it when I use
cloud out of the box and so
fundamentally it's like what you want to
do is make sense of the data that's in
the user chats right are there repeated
sort of frustrations that the user is
voicing are there sort of things that
the user is aspiring to do um and
previously I built a clustering library
called kura to make sense of this right
because at a certain point you're going
to be dealing with more users that you
can deal with and more languages that
you can speak. And so um before you hand
it off to someone who actually speaks
the language, uh some support, some
engineer, some product manager,
oftentimes using a language model in
between to make sense of a lot of these
things is how it's going to just be in
the future. Models will build the models
of the future. And so today we're just
going to implement a minimal open
reproduction. Uh we're going to start
simple and progressively add more
complexity. Um if you've looked at the
codebase that Hugo has linked um
basically we have a folder called
workshop um numbered 1 to 12 and so
um this is if you if you look at the uh
workshop so right over here so for each
of the individual articles we have an
accompanying repo but if you're tuning
in over here to the workshop uh Hugo has
linked the sort of accompanying repo and
we have a numbered list of folders from
1 to 12
>> and I'll share it in the discord again
right now. And if you could uh actually
yeah zoom in um just as much as is
comfortable for you. Even yeah, even
even more if possible.
>> Uh yeah, I can zoom in more. This is
better.
>> We could do e if we could if you could
do even one more, you'd be my hero.
Yeah, that's perfect.
>> No worries about it. Uh yeah so
basically like every single step runs
built on the last uh these are all
complete and um complete folders into
themselves like all the code is
self-contained will run within the
folder and so this these are basically
all of the different portions that we'll
be walking through today in today's
workshop where we're going to call API
we're going to call tool we're going to
implement our first agentic loop we're
going to implement tool factory and so
on and so I think if there are specific
portions that you get lost in I highly
recommend joining the discord, looking
at the code base and then uh trying to
figure out like okay like what is
happening over here. Um as usual if you
have any questions feel free to drop
them in discord. I think it's more fun
to have it more interactive uh rather
than me talking for like another like
hour or so u by myself and so yeah uh
let's start building an agent then.
Yeah.
>> Great. And I will say we haven't had um
any questions yet. A few people have
said some things. Brad has actually
dropped a link when you're talking about
memory. Um he uh a link to uh the new
Claude's new auto automemory feature. Um
which which he finds finds interesting
and it seems like probably was inspired
to say the least by you know what's
happened with open claw in the past
month.
>> I think I I haven't had the chance to
check out like uh cla's automemory yet.
I I'm going to file that away so that I
can check it out after the call. But
like what you said, I think at the end
like people are just so surprised that
something simple like appending
summaries to a markdown file time
stamped. It works so well for memories
and people like it so much, right? Like
a lot of the love that OpenClaw has is
just because the model can see the raw
chats and the model can see the
summaries.
>> So similar. Oh, sorry.
>> Sorry. Just quickly, could you actually
zoom in a lot more again because it has
zoomed out. Um, and if we can Yeah. So,
zoom in even more and because we've had
someone comment that it's quite
difficult to see and maybe even a couple
more. Uh, KP, if you can tell us how
that's looking now. Um, and KP has a
great question. I think everything's in
the repo, but what do we need to build
this? What are the hardware and software
requirements? KP has a Mac with Claude.
Is that enough? I'll say a Mac is
enough. You don't need Claude as well,
by the way.
>> Uh, yeah. I mean,
>> oh, if an LLM you do. Sorry. Yes. Not
Claude code. Yeah, you do need an LLM,
though. Yeah, I mean I guess you need an
LM. You can use any OM you want. Over
here I'm using the Google Genai package.
Um so if you want to follow follow along
with the code that I've written. Um you
basically just need to um have a Google
API key which you can get if you go to
AI studio. Uh you can search it up on
Google Google AI studio and you can
provision an API key in roughly like 30
seconds. Um it's quite a generous free
tier that should last you throughout
this entire workshop. Um, but if you
want to use let's say Claude, if you
want to use like OpenAI, feel free to do
so. Or even like Olama. I think the core
you just need like a computer that can
run some code, make some network
requests and a LM client.
>> Hey, also just if anyone from the labs
is listening. Um, Google has a free tier
in AI Studio. Why don't you all have a
free tier as 2026? Get with it. Everyone
else, I I seriously mean that. As a
teacher, it's incredibly frustrating. I
I I use Gemini in a lot of workshops
because you open AI and you anthropic
don't have a free tier for all my
students. So, also peace to you all, but
yeah, it's frustrating. Continue over.
[laughter]
>> Yeah. No, no, totally get it. I mean,
>> I could have been gentler about that,
but it is. It's [laughter]
>> I think maybe the solution is something
like AMP, right? AMP used to have like a
free tier where you can watch some ads
and get like $300 a month of like free
infrance. Uh Brad has just said nobody
has Google's deep pot but come man have
you seen what Sam Alman is raising at
the moment. Don't give me that BS Brad.
Um okay I'm not going to go deeper into
you know clearly hit a nerve with
myself. Um but yeah we'll be using
Gemini and Gemini 3 is sick and in all
honesty even if you are paying for it
Gemini is way cheaper.
Yeah, I think like the Gemini models are
are significantly cheaper relative to
like the OpenAI's GPD codex models and
entropic. Um, especially if you use fast
mode on Entropic, like you send like 10
messages, you're like 50,
you know, it's it's incredibly
expensive. Um, but I think it's also
like I think if you're looking to build
agents that are going to be deployed at
large scale, um, Gemini Flash is
actually really good. It's like at $3
for a million tokens, I think it's
pretty hard to match that. Um, and even
more when you have like prompt caching
and everything, you're going to see like
significant sort of like savings on the
overall like time, latency, and cost for
yourself. Um, but yeah, I think a free
tier would help a lot. [laughter]
>> Totally.
>> Anyway, um, back to what we discussed.
So, let's start off with just running a
simple agent. Um, the dependencies for
this entire project are just going to be
Google geni, uh, fast API and unicorn.
um a simple library over here for
telegram a rich so that things are
printed nicely and just a loaded
environment variables from av file we
have up here um all I have in there is
just a telegram API key and a set of
whitelisted APIs um let me I can show
you what's um I can show you an example
of it in a bit
let me just uh print this out so just
for context like my example looks like
this um So I basically only have these
two um ENDs that are loaded at any point
in time uh when we're actually going to
start using Telegram. So I'm just going
to add this in the read me. We have
these ENDs.
Cool. Let's get started. So like what we
mentioned earlier actually being able to
talk call tools, it's like an incredible
unlock for a lot of these like models
because they can actually interact with
the environment and get some state. Um
you're probably really used to like
coding agents where you know oh I want
to read a file I want to edit a file
like cloud code but a tool is really
just a function or some sort of
functionality that you can build right
um when it comes to gen AI studio this
is a little verbose I think um so we'll
like abstract a lot of this away later
so you can work directly just with
pythic which I think is much cleaner um
but so like what I mentioned you have a
name for the model you have a
description and then you have some sort
of parameters that you specify
And so on the model provider side what
this means is that if you say hey I want
a JSON object that will have a value
called path um they will guarantee that
you will get something like um path
and then you will see like some sort of
like a string in here and then
everything will be nice and dandy that
this is 2026. Uh all these are handled
for you out of the box nicely right
deterministically. And so once you
define a tool um over here you can then
oh I think I've defined this tool twice.
Let me just get rid of this one.
>> And I'll also just add like you won't
have to you won't write this code a lot
yourself right cuz your your agent will
will write it as well. Um, I will say
though, you've got to make sure when
using something like like Genai from
Google that the agent has access to the
to to the current documents as well
because a lot of frontier models aren't
necessarily up to date with their own
docs or those of other models.
>> Yeah, I think um a lot of the frontier
models have a knowledge cut off at this
point of like January roughly to like
Mayish of 2025. Um, and so like actually
my f my favorite question to ask like
the the models is like what is the
current version of the AI SDK? um
because it's changed so much every three
months and so all of them actually kind
of stay at like two to three. Um, so you
should definitely
>> And we actually have a great question
from KP about do do we clone the repo
and then what I will say definitely
clone uh the the repo and then if Ivan
you want to just show us again where you
are in the directory structure but I
would encourage you not necessarily to
code along. I I think execute along. I
think if you're getting behind while
trying to execute stuff, um, that won't
be as good as an experience as watching
it, asking questions, engaging, being on
top of what we're talking about, and
then running the code afterwards as as
well.
>> Yeah, I think that makes a I think that
makes sense. I think you can always
figure out the code later. Uh, what I
would recommend is just uh listening
along, asking questions where you're
stuck. I think the key thing here is to
understand the core concepts and then
something like Codeex or like Claude or
Gemini CLI, if that's what you use. um
can end up actually like being really
useful for you to ask a lot of questions
about why might I want something like
this? What what's the point of this? Is
this like a very common pattern? Um and
I think it's quite useful to look at
models here as like tutors with infinite
patience. Um but just to answer your
question um we are currently over here
at number one which is just um calling
our first tool. Um as a reminder over
here we're just calling the first API.
We're making our first like API call and
tool as at this point in time. Yeah.
So, uh let's
let's get started. Yeah. So, like what I
mentioned earlier, models can call tools
if they need to. So, let's say over here
we call this specific one. So, let's say
Python tree agent py.
You can see that the model decided to
call a tool here called path read.md.
And that's because we'd ask it like,
"Hey, can you read the readme memb
file?" Right? What happens if, let's
say, we say, "Hey, um, can you tell me a
joke,
right? And we give it a read file tool
because the model has the ability to
choose what it wants to do." Um, you can
see over here that the model simply
responded with, "Why did Scackro win an
award?" Because he was outstanding in
his field.
>> Why are they still telling these jokes
as well? I mean, there are like there
are there are five jokes that they've
all known since GPT4, right?
>> Everyone's um training on the same joke
data set, I guess.
>> They're [laughter] amazing. Amazing dad
jokes also.
>> Yeah, I don't know. I think I've gotten
much better at dad jokes ever since I
started working with models. [laughter]
>> Without a doubt.
>> Yeah, you can see. So, basically, one
thing I would like to point out to is
that you see this um by code over here
called thought signatures. And so what
nowadays when building a lot of agents
you want to think a lot about how you
can preserve like the metadata. Um in
the case of Gemini um they send along
these thought signatures that you need
to send back. Um they will throw an
error. Um if let's say you make a
function call and you don't have this
thought signature included in part and
the reason for that is that for a lot of
these frontier models um when the models
are trained they're trained based off
their unrestricted chain of thought like
the thinking that they have and but when
they serve it to you they don't want to
give it to you because a lot of times I
think they're worried about what it
might contain and so by preserving the
thought signatures um you can actually
ensure that your model performance
increases by like 5 to 10%. Uh that's
the case with the Gemini 3 series of
models and I think with the Gemini 3.1
Pro series I suspect there will be even
more um especially as you know um this
sort of interle thinking sort of
paradigm becomes like the
>> Ivan I'm sorry would you mind zooming in
again as well I think something happens
when you change when you open the
terminal and it um a couple of people
have just mentioned
>> like this
>> yeah so if you could zoom in
>> again
>> yeah exactly
That's great. And maybe close your file
system for the time being as well so
that we can
>> Oh, okay. Sure. Let me just do this
better.
>> Yep. And maybe even if you can zoom in
one more, I think that will be even, you
know,
>> this is like Sure. Sure. I mean, this is
>> that's too much for you. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Uh yeah, we can do this for now. Yeah.
But um is this okay? Um
>> Yeah. Yeah. That's fantastic. It's just
on YouTube. I don't know if people are
watching on their cell phones or what,
but it's Yeah.
>> No worries. Yeah. So one thing is that
okay so the mo so we've seen that if we
give it a prompt like can you read the
readme.md right um the model is actually
going to say hey okay I'm going to want
to call this tool so that I can actually
read the read the specific file you've
indicated and how can we handle this
right it's actually quite
straightforward um what you want to do
is you want to basically parse out this
function call and if you look at the um
specific sort of response body you want
to get candidates for Each candidate you
want to get the content for each content
you want to get the parts you know
within the part you want to get the text
in this case you want to get the
function call right um let's scroll up a
bit to see the previous one um you
notice that if it's a function call this
um specific property will be filled out
you'll see an argument arcs pop read me
um with the sort of structure you
defined and then you'll see a name over
here which is the name of the tool that
you specified and so you want to
basically parse that out and so let's
see what how that works over here. So,
print print.
And so, if we run this piece of code,
you see now that we printed out the
specific function call. Now, once you
print out the function call, what's the
next step? The next step is to feed the
same context back to the model, right?
And so, we're just going to implement a
really simple tool over here called read
file, right? And so, all this function
does is that it would just read a text
file and return its contents. Um,
it doesn't have any error handling. It's
meant to be very simple. So, bear me for
good. So,
>> and Ivan, we've actually got a good
question from Practis. Um, there it's
kind of a multi-art question. Practice
asks, "Is the only way to interact with
the LLM uh oneshot depending on solely
on context of that message? Um, and how
does it uh call a tool? Does the runtime
need to look at the LLM's response,
execute the tool itself uh in in code
and send the back the result to the LLM?
That's exactly what what happens. You
send like whatever your oneshot is, it's
context, whatever you've retrieved
history, whatever it is, plus a prompt,
system prompt uh to an LLM. Then it
figures out whether to call a tool or
not. Um and then sends the result back
to the LLM. and the LL and them reasons
about whether to do another tool call or
anything along those lines and so on.
Would you add anything to that Ivan?
>> Uh no I think like that's basically
about it. Um it's the same loop that we
talked about just now where you know the
model says hey I need this information
in the form of a tool call. It's your
job to sort of implement the
functionality how you execute it how you
fetch the tool. Um and so what you
notice that for the code that we write
down the line is that we make a lot of
these executable functions async by
default. And this is because a lot of
times you're going to be either calling
an API, doing some sort of batch job or
or whatnot. But really, you can think of
it like u they're just ways for the
model to ask for more information or or
to like do some actions, right? Like
what uh I think Brian likes to say. Um
sub agents are just tools, right?
Whatever you think about when it comes
to deep research or all these other sort
of functionality, they're just calling
tools at the end of the day. Um that
then invoke other functionality you
define and then you need to feed it
back. Um imagine if you're an LM you say
hey can I read the read me file and then
all you get back is like okay right you
need to actually get the information out
and then you can interact with the
environment so let's see what happens
over here when we append the contents of
the um the function call and so the way
you do it in Gemini is you actually
append the user message and you use the
typesart for function response method
and then once you have something like
this we're going to make another
completion call we're going to see what
we get back so let's run this piece of
code.
So you see that the model replied with
hey I want to call this specific
function in this case read.md.
Um we read the file and then what the
models
said was let me just see
oh we need to append the contents over
here and then we need to print the
completion out. That's weird.
Can you read the readme.md file and tell
me what's inside
over here we're just going to print out
the same sort of candidates so it's a
bit easier to see.
So practice is also written thank you.
So context length is really king. I mean
context is king that and that's why um
the term cont context engineering makes
so much sense right because it's
something you really do have to uh
engineer. Of course you know there are
big challenges such as uh context rot um
which I'll link to a few things in
in the discord. Um hey Ivan when your
computer makes sounds like that it's
it's quite loud. I'm wondering if those
notifications you can
>> uh Yeah, I'm not causing it. Why don't I
switch over to my earpiece and I can get
around with it.
>> Oh, awesome. That sounds great.
>> Yeah. Yeah. One second. Let me just put
on my
>> Yeah, I'll keep everyone entertained
while
>> Is this slightly better?
>> Can you guys hear?
>> I can hear you well. Yeah.
>> Uh default AirPods. Uh,
can you hear me?
>> I can. Yeah. Can you hear me?
>> Okay. Uh, let me just see. Uh, I can't
seem to hear for some reason. Let me
just try to check my settings. So, give
me one second.
>> Totally. And while while Ivan is
figuring out his settings, I'll actually
link to a few things on context
engineering. Hey, Ivan, we can hear you.
[clears throat] Can you hear me?
Awesome.
I can hear you now.
>> Amazing.
>> Audio from
>> Yeah. Awesome.
Pieces in.
>> Yep. I can hear you. Great. Yeah.
>> Awesome.
>> All right. Let's take a look at it and
let's see what the model responds with
>> up here. The model just says the readme
file contains the following information.
This is a readme about building an agent
called Cro from scratch. will implement
all this information using nothing but
vanilla Python and the Google gen SDK.
And so what you find is that because now
we were able to give the model context
on what exactly is in the readme file,
it's actually able to say, okay, now I
can actually give you a good response.
Um, but a lot of what we're doing over
here is very manual. Uh, we have the
these sort of if else conditions. Um,
we're trying to hardcode a lot of these
different things. And so perhaps what a
better approach might be is just to say,
okay, why don't we just write it out and
abstract it out into a loop. So let's
clean this up a little bit and we're
just going to refactor it into a run
function. And so with this, we can
actually I'm just going to put in a I'm
just going to paste the next chunk of
code in and then we can walk through the
code. So earlier we had a read file tool
definition over here. Um so we defined a
tool called read file. We told the model
if you call this tool and you give me a
path we'll be able to basically read a
file and it can tell you the file
content right and then over here the
model said okay and then we define the
read file tool what we want to do is say
that okay look um ideally we want to run
this in a loop and so what we did just
now is we made a completion using the
generate content method we pass in a
read file tool and over here it's a bit
more complicated but basically The way
it works is that we're going to keep
going um in our main loop down below
over here. So we in we instantiate a
client. We have a list of contents,
right? And we get some user input like
what we did earlier. We have a what we
keyed in in the user input. Just now the
what we keyed in initially was
essentially hey can you read the read me
file, right? And then while this is true
uh we're just going to run our function
above run should go through in a bit.
and and then we're going to append the
assistance message. And you can think of
it like let's say for example we say hey
can you tell me a joke? Well, the model
is probably going to respond with the
same scack code. Like why was the scack
grow like outstanding in his field?
Yeah. And so in that case, you don't
really need to run the loop again,
right? The model has finished its
response. But in the event that let's
say for example you running it as uh say
you know some sort of uh tool call where
you have a coding agent then if the
model calls a tool then you definitely
want to execute the tool append the
result of the tool and then run the loop
again for context this is the third uh
this in folder tree agent py and so what
we do is we just um if we have a tool
result then we're just going to print
out the if we don't have any sort of two
result we're just going to print out the
assistance message.parts parts and then
if it's a tool function respon and then
we're going to break out of it but if
it's a function response this loop is
going to continue running right and so
let's take a look at the run function
briefly um so the contents would be
what's types of content um if you're not
familiar with the geni SDK basically
it's just a list of messages between the
user um the assistant and the function
calls and the results of what the
function calls are and so we basically
just make sure that you know um once
we've run this completion. Um, if it's
just a normal message, recall just now
when we were looking at the function
calls,
we were looking at the function calls up
here. Um, let me scroll up a little bit.
When it the model decides is a function
call, you will see this specific
parameter filled up function call. And
when it's a model just wanting to
respond with some simple text uh like
you see I would say maybe
here when it's just a simple model
response like a model message you will
see the text field populated instead
right so function call versus like text
and when you want to tell the model what
the response is you can use the function
response field and so that's kind of how
the genk works with these like this
explicit fields for you to use and So
if we have no function calls then what
we want to do is basically just want the
model to just return the message and
none right because what we're going to
return is basically the model's latest
message and the result of the run. Uh so
over here you see it's either function
response run result uh which up here I
just made it as a a JSON dictionary with
a function response type and a message.
Hey, I have Brad has a really cool
question um around using something like
flash instead of Opus. And I of course
we talked about Gemini having a free
tier, but uh
>> Brad's question is around when you when
would you use more efficient models in
prod or for other use cases particularly
with respect to a capability gap and
resourcefulness. So I think as we've
with previous iterations on these
models, it seems like Opus has been been
better than many others at um accurate
tool calling. Right.
>> For sure. I think um one of the things
that you want to think about is that um
when you're building a task, you want to
use the best models first. Um I think
cost is something you want to think
about very far down the line or a bit
further down the line once you've real
once you've confirmed that a frontier
model can actually do the task right so
I would say you know opus and flash are
very distinctly different models right
opus is definitely going to be much more
capable than flash it's almost like
eight times the price in terms of like
the output cost so if you've got a task
that you're running at a high volume and
you say like okay opus can do this like
pretty well let me try flash a A lot of
what this means that you want to make
sure you have a simple evaluation data
set of a bunch of tasks that you care
about and then you want to put flash
either in the same harness you want to
let it run and you want to see where are
the problems that flash uh what are some
of the problems that flash might run
into right or is it performing the task
at the same sort of performance or
efficiency and I think a lot of times
you'll be surprised at how far you can
actually push a lot of these models
especially like the cheaper ones um
using opus for everything is very
expensive but also very If you look at a
lot of the responses or the speed at
which we're getting the responses from
Flash, you notice that it's incredibly
fast and you feel even faster if you
have something that implements something
like streaming. And so that kind of is
the magic of like using smaller models.
And so let's say we run Python agent.
Right? We say, "Hey, tell me a joke."
Um, to be honest, Flash will feel almost
instant for a lot of these things,
right? If you say, "Hey, read the read
me file."
Flash will
like it kind of feels like all these
responses are almost like instant
because flash is optimized for very
quick usage and it's meant to be a model
that's smart and cheap, right? Um and so
I think a lot of times it has to do with
like what are the sort of uh use cases
you have in mind? What is the cost or
latency budget that you have and after
you started working with the most
expensive model whether that's Opus
Codex or Gemini 3.1 Pro can you bring it
down and see the same sort of
performance if you're getting let's say
90% of the same performance and it's not
that important of a task whereby but you
seeing a cost saving of maybe like 90% I
think that's something quite valuable to
think about right or maybe you can even
decompose parts of the task into
something simpler into a workflow that
flash can reliably execute for you. Uh
does that answer most of the question?
>> Absolutely. And I've just linked to
actually something I'm working on from a
conversation with Alex uh Strick um
about his LLM database which has you
know 1500 production use cases in it.
And something he's noticed in the
database is that and I I'll actually
quote myself um
we've actually seen a bifocation in use
cases. Uh most use cases are like high
volume processes. So Google Gemini Flash
has become the enterprise workhorse for
document processing, captioning,
transcription. Use less for autonomous
decision-making and more for rapid cost
effective multimodal throughput. High
intelligence agents models like Claude
Opus and GBD5 are preferred for long
trajectory tasks require requiring
reliable multi-step tool use.
>> Yeah, I think so. I think that makes a
lot of sense. I think um flash is one of
the very capable models, but definitely
like you want to do it at high volume,
repetitive, maybe simpler task. Um I
think I also want to point out sometimes
it's also to do with the sort of medium
like the modality of the medium you're
working with. Uh if you're doing any
sort of image or if you're doing any
sort of video any sort of audio um it's
pretty difficult to beat the Gemini
models for example. So in that case like
if your specific use case requires you
to analyze like videos then irregardless
of the qual irregardless of the fact
that opus is a much stronger model than
flash um the fact that the gemini models
can actually understand like videos
intuitively like just by the fact that
they're very they're multimodal by
default might make it a stronger call
stronger like use case in this case for
like captioning for like understanding
video right uh so I think a lot of it is
about balancing like what is your budget
when it comes to like working with the
models what is the use case and like
what are the sort of inputs that you're
having? Um if you have evaluations on
hand that make it easy for you to test
or at least like a few test cases that
you can look at, you can roughly get a
sense for like whether or not this works
or not. Yeah. Um yeah. So I think um if
you look at what the current agent py
looks like, this is basically the third
folder. And what we're seeing is that if
you say, "Hey, tell me a joke." The
assistant replies, "Why don't I just
trust Adams?" Because they make up
everything, right? Um this is a
singlestep response. So you ask it a
question. It replies with a message and
so our loop doesn't continue. Right? But
let's say we say hey read the read me
file. Well then the first the agent
called this tool. Then our loop ran
again and said hey the read me file
contains the following. Uh we have the
the CMVs. We have you know this read
we're building an agent called from
scratch. And if you ask the agent what
did I ask about at the start and I said
and they said at the very start you
asked me to tell you a joke. This was
actually a message that we sent up here.
So this is another point about agents
whereby you know agents will be working
with a context and it's your job to make
sure that it's very clear. Um imagine
that let's say instead of this
conversation being like this um every
message between every message we had
like a huge amount of junk like B 64
stuff in there or like very messy data
where the agents told you you have this
name, you have this date, you have this
age or you're in this country and then
you have a lot of conflicting
information. the more complicated a lot
of your information is, the more
powerful model you might need to make
sense of it. But this is basically like
the agent loop in effect, right? And so
how can we make this a bit simpler?
Well, actually um we can define a
identic object that can simplify a lot
of this, right? So let's create agent
tools
py and we'll see over here that uh this
is going to abstract away a lot of the
initial stuff that we were working on
right previously in agent. what we were
doing is that um you know we had to
first manually create the geni message
uh for the tool result we also had to
manually create the genai schema and so
what we've done over here is that we've
just defined basically a few different
pythic classes um so that we can
actually make working with these tools a
lot simpler so for example you see over
here we define a two result uh we just
have an error name and response and
basically see the response over here.
Um, the way Jenna allows it is that this
can just be any sort of thick string any
and so I just made it a bit easier to
work with and in Pythonic you can do so
by just changing the model config. Um,
you may be also thinking why do I want a
empty agent context? Um, and the reason
for it is because when we have this
execute method that we'll be defining in
all of our different tools, um, you
realize that a lot of our tools will
need to interface with external
dependencies. And so it's really useful
for you to have in this case a shared
context that you can work with. Imagine,
let's say you were working with a
sandbox, but your agent is working on a
server, right? So in this case, whatever
sort of edits that you're making have to
be applied to the sandbox and not to the
local machine. And so by having a
context that the model can say, oh I
want to read from the DB. Hey I want to
read from sandbox. Oh maybe I want to
read from the telegram client and send a
message to the user. Um a lot of these
are separating what is essentially what
is the agent asking you to do and how is
it implemented. And so with it looks a
lot more verbose than what we previously
had. Um but this makes it a lot easier
for us to basically implement all these
tools because now we have automatic
generation of the function calling
schema. Uh you can define the parameters
that you want and you have an execute
function. So now we're just going to
make it a bit nicer whereby the file
content is here. You can say file pop is
red and then we define a bunch of tools.
Um when it comes to our agent um we're
going to define a new thing called a
agent runtime. So up here you see that
this is the same function response run
result but now we're going to have an
agent runtime right and the agent
runtime will basically it's just going
to track the tools we have and it's also
going to be able to be implementing the
hot reload functionality. Um it can sort
of defer depending on how you want to
implement it. But here we're just going
to track the last modified time of the
tools file. And so you'll see over here
that all it does is just it just stores
the context that the tools will need in
order to be executed. It store a list of
the tools um given in the tools
directory that we had. And then it would
just um basically have a bunch of simple
functions like registering a tool,
getting tools, executing a tool. And
other than that, it's kind of the same
function except now we're just going to
pass in the agent runtime. And then
instead of our tools being manually
specified, right now we just get the
tools from the runtime. And then instead
of hard coding the tool name whereby it
was read file before
uh now we're just going to say hey look
like just await the runtime.execute
tool. Now going back to what we
discussed just now it's much more useful
to start with an async runtime at least
in this case when I was writing a lot of
the code because when you're interfacing
with like databases logging etc. A lot
of these are written and implemented as
async functions. And so if you don't
have um async functionality built in
from the beginning, it's a bit
complicated down the line. Um I would
say in general like when building
agents, you want to think about a few
different things. The first one is like
the context. How you organizing the
context so that the agent maintains some
sort of coherence. The second thing is
like prom caching, which thankfully a
lot of the model providers like Gemini,
OpenAI, and Tropic all implement
automatically for you out of the box. um
because prompt caching is is super
important. And I would say the third
thing is streaming. Um in this example
here, we're not going to implement
streaming, but if you've used any sort
of new application, whether it's the
OpenAI chat GBT application, the cloud
application or like the Gemini
application, um you notice that if much
more responsive when you have text
that's streaming out in chunks, right,
and the model's response is streaming
out, whether that's the tool call,
whether that's the response. Um, and
this is really important for building
like good user interfaces, especially as
models start transitioning towards
models that think a lot more. Um, and so
you really want to show like the
thinking traces or the summaries in the
Gen SDK's case. Um, and building it from
day one is often a lot easier relative
to you trying to retrofit like an
existing system to work with like
non-streaming use cases. So I just want
to give a quick call out to that because
I think that's something I've learned a
lot in the last year.
So a lot of the code doesn't really
change. The only difference now is that
we now have this thing called a context.
Um and then the agent runtime that has a
context. Um for now the context is just
a empty class. But um later down the
line when we do for example telegram
it's going to just store basically the
chat ID and the telegram client that we
can then use as a and expose a few
helper methods that we can use.
Okay cool. So now we have the tool
runtime. Let's see whether anything
changes over here. Um so if we run this
code, can you tell me a joke?
Um you see that this is the same
scaffold joke, right? And then if we ask
it the same thing like can you read the
read me file the readme install and tell
me what's in it.
Yeah, with the tool runtime we haven't
had to manually code in basically how to
handle each tool, right? We've just been
able to abstract away the tool
definition from the execution. So if we
go back over here to agent tools, um
what we have right now is a very simple
and nice way to define new tools. Uh we
just need to define a t a class that
inherits from this agent tool class and
that is and we define an execute method
that returns a tool result type and that
basically everything else is handled out
of the box for us, right? And this makes
it very easy for us to implement other
tools um over here. So for example,
let's say if we want to implement a
bunch of other tools like I think just
now like Hugo mentioned that we're going
to to that basic tools all you need are
going to be um reading a file writing
you know editing and bash um you'll
notice that while all of them seem a bit
more complicated
right um really all you need to do to
implement a new tool is just to define
the parameters that you want these are
automatically converted into a pyantic
schema define execute function and the
beauty of this is that you can actually
test and validate your execute function
independently of your model being called
right and so the once you separate the
execution from the tool call I think
this is an incredibly useful thing
because imagine like let's say you can
have an execute function defined on
write and you can check all sorts of
edge cases you can mock the file call
the tool calls can mock the function
arguments and this makes it great and
easy for you to build like really
reliable like agent applications right
so let's see For example, over here, now
that the model has like uh
has all these different tools, let me
just make sure we're using the right
version of agent.py,
right? Um, let's run it now and let's
say, hey, can you tell me what uh files
I have here in my industry?
ignore the pip.
So you see that the model is able to
write like bash commands now and say hey
I want to find this maxdev uh make sure
you ignore specific paths and it said
that hey look like we actually have
these files in the repository right can
you tell me what dependencies I have
and because the model is able to read
all of these different like files can
read a file can run arbitry bash
commands um it's basically able to
interact like a coding agent uh that we
care
And this is kind of the beauty of like
writing agents. It's that when you give
them access to like low-level primitives
or like simple tools that they can
actually do like a lot of these like
very complicated task.
So let's say for example we want to have
a agent that can now write its own
tools. Um let's start by just basically
um updating some of our code so that it
can support this. I think previously we
talked a bit about how you know by
tracking the last modified time of the
you know the Asian tools file over here
where all the tools are defined. Um
we're basically able to allow the model
to reload these functions on demand. So
the way we do it is just by essentially
having a tools file. Um this is the path
that we have for the Asian tools module.
So if you look up here as tools is where
to find the different types but it's
also where our tools are defined. Right?
uh we basically check the last modified
when this agent runtime boots up and so
we use the once you resolve the file you
just use the last modified time and then
every time we want to call the tool um
if you click down below we get the tools
over here or we execute a tool um you
can just do this over here yeah here
yeah here yeah here yeah here yeah here
yeah here so when we get the tools um
before we run essentially like what is a
single inference call over here when we
call like get tools
um we're basically just going to be able
to reload the tools to make sure we have
the most recent tools. If we detect that
the last modified time has changed,
right? And so this is really useful
because let's say for example, um let's
load it up here again.
Let's say hi there. Let's make sure
things are working. And so we can say
okay um can you remove your bash tool
so that let it work for a bit.
So now that we've actually allowed the
model to write the tool, the bash tool
has actually been removed and he's
updated the tools list and it also
removed the unused import subprocess,
right? And so we can say, hey, can you
add your bash tool back? But if you go
to Asian tools, what you find is that
the bash tool has actually been removed,
right? A model is able to get rid of its
own tools and it's able to extend its
own tools, right? So let's revert the
bash tool back because we actually need
bash. Um,
>> I just heard that got some applause.
>> Yeah, it I mean that was that was
applause. I just I just kind of want to
say it you make it look so easy and the
way to do it is relatively
straightforward, but what this idea of
agents
re orchestrating their own harnesses and
building themselves on the fly. And I've
linked once again to Armon's piece um
pie the minimal agent with an open claw.
His last section is called software
building software. This this is actually
totally wild, man. And it
it's a it's a totally new paradigm of of
building software and I just I just
wanted to wanted to mention that because
it looks it looks well it is quite
straightforward to implement and it
makes perfect sense, right?
>> Yeah, I think it's actually pretty
amazing like when I saw it for the first
time. We can actually get the model to
write it own tools too. Let's say for
example we say hey can you write me a
new can you can you create a new tool
that creates you know txt files which
have notion style word names with the
current time stamp. So example would be
time stamp
apple bananas pencils
and so the model can actually just read
the code see like how the code is
currently being used and then it would
just apply its own edits and then once
it's applied the edits that makes sense
you can see that hey it can actually
call the tool if you go to Asian tools
one sec let me just close this you can
see that it created a new notion file I
actually have no idea how this works uh
it seems used to just choose like a
random sample. It ended up adding it to
the notion tools below and because py is
constantly checking to see when the file
was modified. Um you can see that the
tool call was essentially just like made
after that right. So if we check over
here we can see that hey we have this
hello this is the test for the let me
just close this down for the notion
style founding creator tool and this
works out of the box and this is the
idea behind
>> you know like model like software that
builds software you know at the end of
the day when you have like these very
composable building blocks um I think a
lot of this is very possible right
>> totally and KP has KP is written this
was a bit fast to me fast for me I'll
have to rewatch watch this later. I
totally encourage you to rewatch it
later. Look in the repo. At a very high
level, what we're doing and what Ivan's
doing is telling the agent what we want
and then it builds the tool for that.
Uh, and then hot reloads so that it can
be used immediately without having to
restart the runtime. Would you would you
add anything to that, Ivan?
>> Uh, I think that's basically about it. I
mean I think like really like the the
high level overview here is that because
you know our tools are defined in
another file we can just check to see
when the file was last modified. we know
that if there are any changes in that
file, we can just reload the tools,
right? And all the tools are, they're
not like these like concrete things.
They're just like definitions of like
here's what we we telling we're just
telling the model here's what here's
what we can help you with. Here's the
information you need to give us to make
it work. And you know that the model can
just call these tools on demand. Yeah.
So I think the easiest way is just uh
you can look at the repo. Is that the
sixth um four to six in workshop?
>> Yeah.
So
>> awesome. And we have a couple more
questions, but let's actually we'll get
to them later um or answer them in
Discord just in the in in the interest
of time.
>> For sure. For sure. I think we can
answer them uh in a bit more. I think
we're going to we're not going to be
able to finish this today. I think we
might need to run a second workshop
maybe. Um but all the codes on how to do
and everything is is basically like
there if you need it. Um and we have the
accompanying articles that can walk you
through everything. So you can basically
check like bit by bit. I think the next
thing I want to show is just like this
idea of like hooks. Um which I think are
quite an interesting uh concept. I I
really like the concept of like hooks.
So what we've seen over here right now
is that whenever we do some sort of uh
functionality whenever we we execute a
tool uh we have a lot of like hardcoded
stuff right for example over here print
to call print result response and this
is okay but it ends up being very tricky
for us to work with right um because you
know let's say for example now we want
to allow our model to um save something
to disk right when we call a tool We
want to log it to log fire and then we
want to save it to a database and then
we now want to also print it to the
console, right? Every single bit of like
additional functionality you want to add
is being added to the execution logic
itself. And so that ends up being very
difficult to maintain and a really nice
abstraction is the idea of like hooks
where at different parts of the life
cycle of the model uh we may see able to
you know intercept it. And so what we've
defined um if you look at the seven
folder number seven is that we have this
idea of hooks right and so we have three
things that we care about. Uh first one
is when the model responds. Second one
is like when the model calls a tool and
the third one is when the model executes
a tool. Oh in this case when we execute
a tool for the model and we actually uh
give it the result. Um I've defined a
bunch of nice classes over here that
tell you like what sort of parameters
you can expect. uh you have the agent
context and you also have the types that
content. So you have when the model has
a response, when the model basically
calls tool, and when the model has a
result, right? And so how did these sort
of look in practice? Well, you just need
to go back to the fun the run function.
And you can see over here
um because all these handlers are
essentially just going to be defined on
like a mostly handled using an init
function. As you can see here, there's
an async function and all these are also
supposed to be async function. That was
my bad. But um basically what you see is
that you know for every single handler
we register for a hook, we're just going
to execute it when a certain event
happens. So let's say for example um
down here
when I when the model finishes its turn,
we basically just call this hook this
emit function, right? And that will call
every single handler we've registered on
the on model response hook. And so same
with the function calls uh when you when
the model when we're processing all
these function calls when we see a
function call for a model we're just
going to emit we're just going to call
all the handlers uh register on to call
and the same thing for onto right and so
this looks a bit different than what we
had previously because previously um if
you look at the run function that we had
let me just pull out what we have over
here. If we look at the run function,
you notice that over here we have these
hardcoded sort of print statements. Um,
we have
>> so just zoom in a bit.
>> Oh, sorry. Let me just close this over
here. Yeah, we have a lot of this like
hardcoded logic of how to handle how to
print, how to save certain bits of logic
whenever like certain parts of life
cycle are encountered, right? And so
hooks are a much more cleaner
abstraction over this. And so you can
see over here we have uh these things
called printm response and then print to
result. So let's see how these work
first um print to result and then print
our response. So let's run a py
exit clear
tree.
So you can see that right now we defined
a hook right and all the hook does is
that um if you look at print to result
like when the model responds for every
part.ext text we're just going to print
out with markdown support uh we're just
going to print out basically a star and
this part text right what happens when
the model calls a tool can you read the
readme
well now you can see like a lot of
basically this was another instance of a
hook being called right so when the
model called executed the tool we
printed out both the tool call and the
tool itself and what was the result we
don't print the result here we just
printed a tool call yeah and so then we
had This model responds with text. We
said that hey, I've read the readme.d
explains the buildings agent. Heroku
great, right? But this isn't all you can
do with hooks because right now we've
abstracted away essentially the printing
of the statement or the logging of the
model's responses. Uh we can actually
make it very pretty, right? Um so let's
see over here. Let's do I've tried to
make it like a very obvious name. Uh
print nicer to response.
Print
nicer lm response. All right. And so
let's try running this again, right? Say
that, hey, can you write a short two
paragraphs using markdown
and code blocks, right? And so if you
see this over here, what's going to come
out is you're going to get a much
prettier sort of render. You can see
like now you have this nice markdown.
You have support for like code blocks.
But this goes beyond this, right? You
can also say, for example, can you edit
can you edit the read me to have a joke
at the end and then read the redo once
you're done call using the retile tool.
So let's wait for the model to call it.
So it
you can see now we have these really
nice diffs um that are essentially
coming out, right? So when you have an
edit, you have a div preview that's
automatically been created. Um I've done
something for read file in one of the
subsequent workshop ones that shows like
a snippet. But you notice that our core
agent logic hasn't changed, right?
What's changed over here is the core
rendering logic. And by hooking this up
into hooks uh which we have over here
and telling the model like hey um when
you get when you call a tool um I want
you to execute this function with what
you pass in. And this is a very
composable way to think about agents and
how like it's kind of implemented in
like pi where you have these like
extensible ways to basically like extend
functionality both in terms of new
tools, new ways to render stuff but you
also have this idea of like at different
parts of the life cycle of the model
like the entire agent loop like hooks
are just this abstraction that you can
use to understand like I should do this
I should do that you know and you can
have multiple hooks on it too and that
makes it quite a nice way to work with
it. Yeah. Um I think we're running out
of time. Do you want to take some
questions? We can maybe have like 10
minutes for questions.
>> Well, I wonder whether we want to um
I've been answering some in Discord and
Brad has as well. If we want to so what
we've done so so far, we've really done
the the first two parts ah well the
first several parts, you know, the
introduction, then lay the land,
building the base agent, then giving it
hands and and getting it to do stuff. I
do wonder if we want to um connect it to
Telegram or show people how we do that
and then say a bit about sandboxing and
and then wrap up.
>> Sure, we can do that. Uh so I guess we
can look at how we can transform like
what is currently a CR application into
what I think I guess like a server might
look like. So let me just copy over some
of the files that I'll be using. So let
me just delete these and then
>> so Ivan will be using fast API for this
as well which is super super cool. Um,
and the basic idea here, as Ivan
mentioned, he's [clears throat] been
doing all all of this from the command
line. And we want to create a server so
that when I'm at the cafe, I can chat
with [clears throat] my assistant here
using Telegram or whatever it may be.
>> Mhm. Yeah. So basically the idea is that
right now everything is happen on the
you know command line and if you can
abstract it out into the server um you
can do a lot more. So let's say for
example let's call our simple server py
right and so what this will do is it
will boot up a simple server where you
know we have our model running um I've
written basically so we can actually
interact with this if we go I have like
test call over here so this is a message
that we can send via HTTP request and
let's see how it works tree uh test call
I think test call is here
>> and um we just had a good question that
is are hooks just for logging and
debugging. And the answer is no. And
correct me if I'm wrong. Uh I've hooks
are so cool. They're really like
something happened announcements. So you
can attach code that runs when these
things fire. So um if something happens,
I can make a send me something on
Telegram or send an email or whatever it
may whatever may be. Essentially, it's
kind of like a trigger, right?
>> Yes, for sure. So I think um let me just
show you like how it would work for a
telegram and then uh we can I think you
get a better idea of like what a hook
can do. So let's say for example on the
agent context we defined two new things
right one is a telegram client and one
is a chat id right um and we defined a
new method called send message. If we go
back to the server that we had just now,
all we now need to send telegram
messages is to define two new folks,
right? So when a model has a telegram
response, when a model response uh send
a message over to your part.ext and then
over here you can say send telegram to
response um if let's say you have a tool
call just print this on telegram right.
So and then the hooks over here the
registering of the hooks is relatively
straightforward. You just need to do on
to result on the model response on the
to result on the model response. Uh so
let's hope this works out.
Demos are always kind of scary. So let's
spin up the server, right? And I let me
just test out my telegram. See if it
works. Uh let me just pull I have a
bunch of private chats. Sorry guys.
Hi there.
So agent.init. I just need to update my
agent sec over here and it should work.
Uh let me just find agent py.
Let me see this might work now.
So you can see right now like I
basically um let me just put this in
over here. Um, so this is my Telegram
chat, right? And then what I have is
essentially I can just say, hey, can you
read what's in
readme.md?
And it's being sent over to my telegram.
You can see it's being logged out with
read file and then every single response
is being sent back here. And this is
kind of how it works with folks because
um if you think about it and you
abstract it out a little bit more um all
we've done is just basically an agent
framework that's executing some logic
and we've basically implemented some
stuff on top of it right in this case
we've implemented hooks which that means
that different parts of the life cycle I
want you to execute this logic and
literally all we had to do in order to
get let's say this telegram bot working
wasn't to do any function complex
functionality all we had to do was just
to define finally on to result and on
model response uh telegram hooks right
over here you can see send telegram tool
response and you can see over here um
this is once we implement these two
hooks with a telegram bot that we have
um it just worked out of the box right
like you can see me sending messages you
can see like all of the messages being
logged out here and we still get the
logging and debugging that we originally
had right hi there was here hi there can
you read what's in readme.md for
Everything works out of the box as you
originally did with a simple and
extensible architecture that works
because you have very good primitives,
right? And by abstracting out what is
essentially like the command line
application, all the rendering logic,
the input logic, right? So we have this
into like a Asian framework and like now
a server that we hosted on. you can
start to see by by making your sort of
software very composable this ends up
being a very good investment for you
down the line um of like how your Asian
architecture is basically going to
evolve. Yeah.
>> Incredible. And it's amazing. It's just
amazing how after setting up, you know,
the relatively straightforward
infrastructure of the original agent,
the tool factory, hot reloading that
you're able to, you know, create the
server, um, and and and this Telegram
bot so so quickly as well.
>> Yeah, I think a lot of it is just like
good abstractions. Um, I think the cost
of writing software is just cheap
nowadays. Uh, models have gotten so good
at it. And so if you're building an
agent, I don't think it's that much of
an of a difficult challenge to roll your
own sometimes. Um especially if you have
a very simple task. Yeah. Of course,
like this isn't production video, you
know, like but
>> Well, exactly. But I
>> Yeah, I I mean the intention isn't
necessarily we're not teaching you to
hand roll your own agents so that you
necessarily do it and use them in
production and that type of stuff. You
may create your own assistant or use PI
or open core as a foundation yourself,
but we wanted to help you understand the
build understand the internals by
building so you know so you know how
they they work and like look inside the
the black box and see how relatively
straightforward um [clears throat] well
how straightforward that the components
are, the Lego the Lego bricks so to
speak. practice did have a question
about skills um in particular what they
are and I replied with a what Simon
Willis has written about written about
them [clears throat] it's a it's a
markdown file telling the model how to
do something usually it has some you
know front YAML front matter um and
they're incredibly like powerful and
multi-purpose uh practice responded
[clears throat]
uh that they love how we have so many
names for what's basically just
additional descriptions ctions pretend
prepended to the prompt. I have a few
things to say to that. Firstly, I agree
there's a bit of nuance there. I do want
to say everything's the prompt. Like in
the end, these are stateless systems and
we're building architecture, a harness
and infrastructure around them and
engineering context to center them each
time. So everything really is in
[clears throat] in the prompt that you
send to the the LLM.
Um, the other thing I want to say
though, I wouldn't only characterize
skills as like this. Um, because one
thing that's really cool about them, it
isn't as though you just take the whole
skill, throw it in, whatever. There's
progressive disclosure. So, your agent
will read uh know the name of every
skill and perhaps the front matter at
the start, and if it thinks it will find
one useful, it will then read the skill
after you've said something to it. Um,
and then if it thinks it needs to look
at some of the files referenced, it will
do that. So, it's this progressive
disclosure, which is a wonderful way to
think about not just throwing everything
in the context at once as well. For
sure.
>> Does that resonate with you?
>> Yeah, I think it makes a lot of sense.
Uh, I put out the entropic uh example.
And so, what you can see over here is,
sure, for some skills, they're just
markdown files with front letter. Um, so
you can see over here like it's just
brand guidelines, a name, a description,
a license, and then you can see over
here these are like how to use the
entropic styles. But if you look at
something like DOCX, right, where this
is like a skill that should be used
whenever the user wants to create, read,
edit or manipulate word documents, then
you can start to see that okay, now you
have like these Python scripts that go
with it, right? you have these um
helpers, validators, all these different
bits of like functionality that someone
else has written. And so it's a lot less
like this is just a prompt and more like
this is functionality that you've
written for a model. A lot of times when
you build agents, there are things that
the agent can do and there are things
that the agent cannot do and there are
things that the agent should decide it
needs to learn to do on demand. U it's
always been able to search the web.
That's like a skill I guess. But now
skills are like curated sets of like
additional information and context that
we're giving it to Aman. Either it's
context or capabilities. Yeah.
>> Awesome. So I wonder whether we just
want to we're not going to deploy to
modal um today but um maybe we want to
you'll notice that this is all happening
locally uh on Ivan's uh computer. Um and
and so I mean he's deployed a server,
right? Um but in the end to sand to have
it sandboxed and and secured you may
want to um you know set up some
infrastructure for that. So do you want
to say a few words about that?
>> Uh yeah let me just show like the modal
stuff. Uh so basically the way that you
want to that I've chosen to work a bit
zoom in. Yeah great. This is all in the
repository as well.
>> Yeah. So you have like a worker and you
have a server and so what we do is we
have a server that receives telegram
messages and then for every single
telegram message we have we put it in a
queue that has a chat ID. Now, the
beauty of having like um and then this Q
is bas you can think of a Q like a like
a Python list, right? We're just going
to keep putting new Telegram messages on
it and then we have a worker. py that's
going to just keep pulling off that
list. Uh when this receive a message,
this receives a message. Now, the beauty
of something like this is that you can
actually have as many workers as you
have chats. So, every single chat can
have its own sandbox worker, right? Its
own sandbox instance. And the way that
we make sure that the sandbox is
essentially working um is because modal
has this really nice new experimental
feature called um let [clears throat] me
find it. It's called experimental enable
snapshot. And so what you're able to do
is you're able to snapshot the entire um
current runtime of the sandbox and also
the dependencies. So it's kind of like a
VM, but you can just suspend it whenever
you want. Um I think it's a really good
like feature. I really like it. Um, it's
worked pretty well for me out of the box
and I think like once this gets out of
alpha into like a more like stable
setting, I think this will if they're
able to do what is essentially like
booting up a snapshot and like taking a
snapshot in like relatively fast amount
of time, let's say like under in a few
seconds, I would say that this is a very
strong uh argument to try to take a look
at more. Yeah.
>> Awesome.
So, we have um
a couple of questions. Uh one, let me
get it right from
KP is
uh what type of things are you using
this stuff for at at the moment? Um
mainly by way of inspiration that they'd
love to know.
>> Uh I think for me like a lot of these
are currently just uh I feel like I'm
just tinkering around and trying to
learn a lot more. Um, but I think what
I've just found is just that like the
models themselves have gotten so like
capable, right? So it's like I'm just
trying to find like the best sort of UX
ways to to interact with these models.
Um, but it's just for fun. Yeah. I think
like that's the best part of like
working in like the language model
space. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Let me just share something. Um,
I'm just going to share my screen
quickly. I've shared this. So my entire
like podcast, workshop, blog post,
videos, curriculum, pipeline, I use um
skills and MCP servers and these types
of agents for all all the time. And let
me just show you. So Brad, who's on the
call, he um he messaged me.
Let me
[clears throat] This is wild as well as
far as I'm concerned. Um,
let me just
You wouldn't believe how many windows I
have open right now. Um, [laughter]
>> it's it's a common problem for me, too.
>> Yeah. Um,
okay. So, I I've just been taking some
notes down over something I did. Um,
Brad messaged me when I was having my
morning coffee and he sent me some code
on GitHub that would clip YouTube videos
for me and burn captions into them,
right?
>> Um, so I give it a YouTube RL and
timestamp, a URL, and uh, it uses YTDLP
to download the segments. Then I specify
whisper to transcribe, ffmpeg to burn
the captions in, right? And then you
could hook it into YouTube in order to
upload it actually. So this was exciting
for me. I do a lot of podcasts and
workshops like this and clipping is a
bottleneck, right? Um, valuable and time
consuming. I was at the cafe. So I
actually sent it to my open claw AI
assistant and said could [clears throat]
you look at this and actually Alex I
also have a script which chooses from a
transcript um the types of things that
I'd like. And what you then see was on
top of it. He spawned a sub agent so he
could chat with me while doing it in
real time. He built in around 10 15
minutes the clipfinder um with respect
to the types of clips I wanted. I said
to him, "Check out this interview I did
with Jeff Huber. Can you try it on
this?" He sent me on via Telegram the
videos he'd done. Um and then I was
like, "There are no captions." A minute
or two later, he was like, "Yeah, sorry.
Forgot the captions." And then it took
me around 20 minutes when I got home to
figure out what he' code written and
made it something that I could turn into
a skill. Um, and and that's pretty much
pretty much it. So, that's one example.
Yeah, I asked my AI assistant to extend
it. Alex Born a sub agent, tested on the
Jeff Huber podcast, 30 minutes later,
caption clips delivered to my Telegram.
And so, I did that with Open Claw, but
that's something you could do with
everything we've just showed you today
as well.
>> Yeah, agents build agents.
>> Exactly. It's software software building
building software. I'll just go back to
the workshop and see um
there are a couple of questions from
from Brad that um I'm going to go back
to one he asked just a bit earlier.
Let me find this.
Um can you explain the async function
that you use? [clears throat] Does it
mean the tool calling etc is run
independently? And what's the
relationship between this and sub aent
structure?
Uh yeah. So basically what's happening
is that um a lot of times it's easier to
get started with like simple synchronous
tools like read file or whatnot but when
something is async it just means that uh
you just wait for the result to come
back. Um a lot of these are just like
your normal like network request calls
you know you're waiting for your
database to be like you know done. Um,
and so because
as more and more work ends up being
coordinated with different systems, it's
often wise to think about a lot of your
tool calls is like async, right? Whether
it's like let me call 10 Gemini
instances and like wait for them to come
back and then give the response to my
main main agent or whatn not what stuff
like that or let me like call a database
wait for it to be like uh persisted come
back and tell the model okay we saved
into database. All of these happen on
systems or like depend have dependencies
that like you can't really control and
so you need to factor in that when
you're designing a tool. Um but making
it async is just so that it's easier
because a lot of stuff you're going to
be doing is async anyway. Yeah.
>> And to the point we made earlier that
Brian Bishoff actually said to me in a
conversation I'll release next week. Um
you like async tools happening in
parallel all of those those types of
things. Are they sub agents? Kind of. I
mean sub agents is an abstraction that
we use to describe um you know processes
like collections of tool calls happening
and uh context being isolated and that
type of stuff as well. Um look we're
actually a bit over time uh and I want
to be mindful of everyone Saturday or
Friday depending on where you are. We
have a bunch of people from the US
joining joining late. Um I'd love to
thank you all for all the wonderful
questions and interaction. um and
engagement in uh Discord. Uh and most of
all, I'd love to thank you, Ivan, just
for the good times, man, for building
this uh with me and for coming along and
sharing everything you're working on and
thinking about as well.
>> Yeah, thanks, man. Thanks for having me
on the uh on the workshop, too. It was a
lot of fun to build this. I had a lot I
learned a lot from it, too.
>> As did I. Um, and I'm just sharing the
link, the Luma link once again, uh,
which is the next live stream we'll be
doing. And I'll share that in YouTube as
well for those who aren't necessarily in
in the Discord, which ah, no, I shared
the wrong one. I'm sorry. Classic
classic Hugo did that earlier today.
I'll now share the build your own deep
research agent, uh, which we're going to
have a lot of fun doing. Do check out
the GitHub repository, which we've
shared, um, several times. And if you
Oh, man, my video is just s
Uh video is okay for me. Yeah.
>> Yeah, it it is in in this chat and it
isn't in YouTube for some reason. I will
figure this out. Um but um if if you
enjoy these things, please do share them
with friends. Um and the and give us a
like and subscribe as well. So thanks
once again everyone for joining. Um most
of all, thank you Ivan.
>> Yeah, thanks for having me on. Yeah.
Have a good weekend